it's the Roger books bird way it's got
the most impressive wingspan he's an
incredibly rare here the simple fact
that they're so beautiful the collectors
will pay immense prices for them
apparently if you give them a live
specimen to Japan may be worth about as
much as a thousand US dollars each
they're far better out here on the wing
the steep canyon sides are home to some
very specialized creatures this frog has
evolved to live on the slippery
waterfall rocks and as an expert before
he didn't capture professor Tyrone Hayes
has been chasing frogs since he was a
child
he's gonna go straight into the
waterfall again
and what it does is it leaps into the
waterfall to escape predators more
scientists that want to collect it and
that's exactly what he did rather than
jump back we left straight over the
boulder
I'm ahead clockwork
with time running out Gordon is using
technology to help the search for
species it's a video camera trap that
captures animals 24 hours a day if it's
put in the right spot running knowledge
of the animals is much more important
than your actual knowledge of the
equipment because you've got a manual
that you can open up and you've got half
a brain in your head you can work out
what a piece of equipment does and but
without animals you've got to overthink
in wildlife films you've got to have an
understanding with the animals
good luck the camera trap is on a
natural hilltop trail he believes
animals regularly use with two days to
go a mysterious sound has been heard far
away down the valley the haunting call
of the orangutan
now with forest destruction truly wild
orangutans are very rare and notoriously
shy of humans these orangs were filmed
in a well-established nature reserve
where they're used to the presence of
humans to find a population in in back
would be a major breakthrough
this call is the first evidence that
orangs live in the canyon
justine is off in pursuit she follows
the river all the way down to the edge
of the canyon we didn't think there are
rains around here at all we haven't
found any around our camp no signs no
nests nothing so this is a bit further
afield
we followed the in background and you
know that's great
maybe there's more than one who knows
but she's probably on some sort of
circuit and she'll come back she's this
has got fruit on it the remains of the
orangs favorite food figs like all
around perfume smell oh so
justine decides to use the highest tree
in the area as a look at last I could
hear they're proving elusive so far
fingers crossed today will be the day or
they're just beat stingless bees to
annoy me and that's it